VAULT-42829: Create a new billing config endpoint to set custom retention months (#2490)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v2.x/content/api-docs/system/billing/config.mdx

---
layout: api
page_title: /sys/billing/config - HTTP API
description: >-
  The `/sys/billing/config` endpoint manages billing data retention configuration.
# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT
created_at: 2026-05-21T14:00:00-05:00
last_modified: 2026-05-21T14:00:00-05:00
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# `/sys/billing/config`

@include 'alerts/restricted-root.mdx'

> The `/sys/billing/config` endpoint allows you to configure how long Vault retains billing data. This endpoint is only accessible from the root namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `/sys/billing/config` endpoint allows you to configure how long Vault retains billing data.
```
The "restricted-root" alert already notes the need for the root namespace :)

By default, Vault retains billing data for 37 months, including the current month. You can configure the retention period to be between 13 months (minimum) and 72 months (maximum).

> ~> **Note:** Increasing the retention period will not restore historical data for months that were previously outside the retention period. Only data within the previous retention period will be available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Increasing the retention period cannot restore historical data for months that was previously outside the retention period, but will retain data from the previous retention period.
```
Style correction: write in active voice, avoid making basic content asides

| Method | Path                  |
| :----- | :-------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/billing/config` |

> | `POST` | `/sys/billing/config` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Having a table with not context for the endpoints doesn't really provide useful info and might trip people up as they try to scan the document

## Read billing configuration

> This endpoint returns the current billing data retention configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Return the current billing data retention configuration.
```
Style correction: avoid "this" as a pronoun

| Method | Path                  |
| :----- | :-------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/billing/config` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
    "${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/sys/billing/config"
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "retention_months": 37
  }
}
```

## Update billing configuration

> This endpoint updates the billing data retention configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the billing data retention configuration.
```

| Method | Path                  |
| :----- | :-------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/billing/config` |

### Request parameters

- `retention_months` `(int: required)` - The number of months to retain billing data, including the current month. Must be between 13 and 72 months.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    "${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/sys/billing/config"
```

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "retention_months": 48
}
```

### Sample response

> When increasing the retention period above the current value, the response includes a warning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you increase the retention period above the current value, the response includes a warning:
```
Style correction: avoid implicit sentence subjects, avoid "ing" verbs when declarative verbs will work

```json
{
  "warnings": [
    "Retention period increased from 37 to 48 months. Historical data will only be available for months within the previous retention period. Data for months older than 37 months ago will not be restored."
  ]
}
```

> When decreasing or maintaining the retention period, no warnings are returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vault does not return warnings when you decrease or maintain the existing retention period.
```
